docs/examples/basic_usage.md, before:

# Basic Usage

This guide covers the fundamentals of using udspy.

## Setup

First, configure the OpenAI client:

```python
import udspy

udspy.settings.configure(api_key="sk-...")
```

Or use environment variables:

```python
import os
import udspy

udspy.settings.configure(api_key=os.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY"))
```

## Simple Question Answering

```python
from udspy import Signature, InputField, OutputField, Predict

class QA(Signature):
    """Answer questions concisely."""
    question: str = InputField()
    answer: str = OutputField()

predictor = Predict(QA)
result = predictor(question="What is the capital of France?")
print(result.answer)  # "Paris"
```

## With Reasoning

```python
class ReasonedQA(Signature):
    """Answer questions with reasoning."""
    question: str = InputField()
    reasoning: str = OutputField(description="Step-by-step reasoning")
    answer: str = OutputField(description="Final answer")

predictor = Predict(ReasonedQA)
result = predictor(question="What is 15 * 23?")
print(f"Reasoning: {result.reasoning}")
print(f"Answer: {result.answer}")
```

## Custom Model Parameters

```python
predictor = Predict(
    signature=QA,
    model="gpt-4",
    temperature=0.7,
    max_tokens=100,
)
```

## Global Defaults

```python
udspy.settings.configure(
    api_key="sk-...",
    model="gpt-4o-mini",
    temperature=0.7,
)

# All predictors use these defaults unless overridden
predictor = Predict(QA)
```

## Error Handling

```python
from pydantic import ValidationError

try:
    result = predictor(question="What is AI?")
except ValidationError as e:
    print(f"Output validation failed: {e}")
except Exception as e:
    print(f"API error: {e}")
```

## Testing

Mock the OpenAI client for testing:

```python
from unittest.mock import MagicMock
from openai.types.chat import ChatCompletion, ChatCompletionMessage, Choice

def test_qa():
    # Mock response
    mock_response = ChatCompletion(
        id="test",
        model="gpt-4o-mini",
        object="chat.completion",
        created=1234567890,
        choices=[
            Choice(
                index=0,
                message=ChatCompletionMessage(
                    role="assistant",
                    content="[[ ## answer ## ]]\nParis",
                ),
                finish_reason="stop",
            )
        ],
    )

    # Configure mock client
    mock_client = MagicMock()
    mock_client.chat.completions.create.return_value = mock_response

    udspy.settings.configure(client=mock_client)

    # Test
    predictor = Predict(QA)
    result = predictor(question="What is the capital of France?")
    assert result.answer == "Paris"
```

## Next Steps

- Learn about [Streaming](streaming.md)
- Explore [Tool Calling](tool_calling.md)
- See [Advanced Examples](advanced.md)

Commit message:

feat!: simplify settings API to only accept LM instances
Remove model, api_key, and base_url parameters from settings.configure()
and settings.context(). All configuration must now be done through LM
instances created via the LM() factory.

This simplifies the API surface and centralizes all provider detection
and configuration logic in the LM factory, making the codebase more
maintainable and easier to understand.

Changes:
- Remove model, api_key, base_url params from settings.configure()
- Remove model, api_key, base_url params from settings.context()
- Update all examples to use LM() factory
- Update all documentation to reflect new API
- Fix _detect_provider() function signature bug
- Update error messages to show correct API usage

BREAKING CHANGE: settings.configure() and settings.context() no longer
accept model, api_key, or base_url parameters. Use LM instances instead.

Migration:
  Before: udspy.settings.configure(model="gpt-4o", api_key="sk-...")
  After:  lm = LM(model="gpt-4o", api_key="sk-...")
          udspy.settings.configure(lm=lm)

  Before: with udspy.settings.context(model="gpt-4", api_key="sk-..."):
  After:  lm = LM(model="gpt-4", api_key="sk-...")
          with udspy.settings.context(lm=lm):

Environment variable support remains unchanged - settings.configure()
with no arguments still reads from UDSPY_LM_MODEL and UDSPY_LM_API_KEY.

docs/examples/basic_usage.md, after:

# Basic Usage

This guide covers the fundamentals of using udspy.

## Setup

First, configure with an LM instance:

```python
import udspy
from udspy import LM

lm = LM(model="gpt-4o-mini", api_key="sk-...")
udspy.settings.configure(lm=lm)
```

Or use environment variables:

```python
import os
import udspy
from udspy import LM

lm = LM(model="gpt-4o-mini", api_key=os.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY"))
udspy.settings.configure(lm=lm)
```

Or configure from environment variables directly (set `UDSPY_LM_MODEL` and `UDSPY_LM_API_KEY`):

```python
import udspy

udspy.settings.configure()  # Reads from environment
```

## Simple Question Answering

```python
from udspy import Signature, InputField, OutputField, Predict

class QA(Signature):
    """Answer questions concisely."""
    question: str = InputField()
    answer: str = OutputField()

predictor = Predict(QA)
result = predictor(question="What is the capital of France?")
print(result.answer)  # "Paris"
```

## With Reasoning

```python
class ReasonedQA(Signature):
    """Answer questions with reasoning."""
    question: str = InputField()
    reasoning: str = OutputField(description="Step-by-step reasoning")
    answer: str = OutputField(description="Final answer")

predictor = Predict(ReasonedQA)
result = predictor(question="What is 15 * 23?")
print(f"Reasoning: {result.reasoning}")
print(f"Answer: {result.answer}")
```

## Custom Model Parameters

```python
predictor = Predict(
    signature=QA,
    model="gpt-4",
    temperature=0.7,
    max_tokens=100,
)
```

## Global Defaults

```python
udspy.settings.configure(
    api_key="sk-...",
    model="gpt-4o-mini",
    temperature=0.7,
)

# All predictors use these defaults unless overridden
predictor = Predict(QA)
```

## Error Handling

```python
from pydantic import ValidationError

try:
    result = predictor(question="What is AI?")
except ValidationError as e:
    print(f"Output validation failed: {e}")
except Exception as e:
    print(f"API error: {e}")
```

## Testing

Mock the OpenAI client for testing:

```python
from unittest.mock import MagicMock
from openai.types.chat import ChatCompletion, ChatCompletionMessage, Choice

def test_qa():
    # Mock response
    mock_response = ChatCompletion(
        id="test",
        model="gpt-4o-mini",
        object="chat.completion",
        created=1234567890,
        choices=[
            Choice(
                index=0,
                message=ChatCompletionMessage(
                    role="assistant",
                    content="[[ ## answer ## ]]\nParis",
                ),
                finish_reason="stop",
            )
        ],
    )

    # Configure mock client
    mock_client = MagicMock()
    mock_client.chat.completions.create.return_value = mock_response

    udspy.settings.configure(client=mock_client)

    # Test
    predictor = Predict(QA)
    result = predictor(question="What is the capital of France?")
    assert result.answer == "Paris"
```

## Next Steps

- Learn about [Streaming](streaming.md)
- Explore [Tool Calling](tool_calling.md)
- See [Advanced Examples](advanced.md)
